In 2013, our English-hunted Bibles were revised, and shortly thereafter, the Braille Bibles
were approved to be revised when English and Portuguese.
We knew it was going to be a large job.
We were having problems with the pages either tearing or coming completely out of the Bible.
We tried changing the paper to see if that would be a simple solution, and we had a brother
who is blind come in and help us.
We would be able to test the paper in the machine and actually walk it right over to the
brother, and he gave us immediate feedback on adjustments to the machine, or if it wasn't
working at all.
During our testing, we tried about 25 different types of paper, but we ended up coming back
to the idea that the binding was the best way to find a durable solution.
The result is that the durability is 400% stronger than it was before.
We can pick up an entire book by holding just one page.
In the Literature Production Office, we have ones who receive the requests for the Braille
Bibles.
We have ones who review these requests as they come into the system, and then we have
a separate set of brothers who make sure that all the materials are here on time.
We get our orders from the office, and then the office will then tell us how many to make,
maybe the specific volume number.
Braille Bibles come from the Wal-Kill Prennery on the Braille production floor.
Right at the end of the machine, we have a Braille paper roll.
We make sure that there's nothing wrong with that roll, and then it gets fed into the machine.
It creates braille on both sides of the page, and after that it gets cut and punched.
We gather it, do some quality inspection, we'll bind it together, we'll rivet each section
into a binder that has been pre-labeled with the volume number, do an inspection on it,
pop it in a box, and then send it out the door.
To produce the English Bible and Braille, it takes about four and a half hours, which
then breaks out into 28 volumes, and the Portuguese Bible and Braille takes closer to five and
a half hours, and that breaks out into 32 volumes.
We did not start production with Genesis because we wanted the brothers and sisters to
be able to receive the volume that would be on the congregation Bible reading schedule
at our midweek meetings.
So as we receive the files for each volume, it's being printed and sent out to our brothers
and sisters.
It's important to me to be able to read God's Word rather than just listening because
I am a visual person, so the eyesight is gone, but I'm still visual.
I learn better from reading than I do from listening.
In my mind, when I'm listening, my mind wonders, but when I'm reading, I can stop and meditate
on what I'm studying that helps me with my relationship with Jehovah.
It has helped me a lot because a lot of things I don't have to look up because it's in plain
English.
They have so many things in this new Bible that I can use, like the outline.
I can get that outline and find something fast.
It has the appendix, it has the word index, the glossary.
During the time of the memorial, I was able to read the events of the last week of Jesus
life.
I really enjoy reading with one hand and pulling the other hand down and reading the fun notes.
I can participate more in the midweek meeting, for instance, in the section digging for spiritual
gyms.
The brothers always get someone from the audience to read the scriptures.
So once I got the new Bible, I could raise my hand and go out and to read.
And so the whole meeting opened up.
The revised edition helps me be more effective as a me and helps me to find exactly what I need.
Before the revision, when he'd have a part on the meeting, he would have to get his
brailler out and have me dictate one sentence at a time so he could type it all out what
he was going to use in his part.
So this is nice because he has the right wording that all the friends have.
I like to carry it from house to house.
So I can only take the one volume because they're huge, but whatever the initial call is,
I can take that scripture and see if the householder will let me read a scripture for them.
It means so much to be able to read the scriptures, to do the personal study.
I am very thankful for all the work our brothers have done up in Wal-Kill.
I really appreciate the effort that they've all gone through because that's a lot of work.
Then Jehovah's organization, they care for everyone.
I was so thankful that they had the Braille Bible for the blind.
That's what draws me closer to Jehovah.
Being able to study his word and look the scriptures up.
The new Bible is personal to me.
I feel like it was a personal answer to your prayer, Jehovah.
Supplied it because that's the main thing I wanted to read.
And I am so thankful to Jehovah.